---
title: "Relay"
date: 2020-12-11
categories: [Living]
tags: ["love"]
---

# Relay

Maybe you are familiar with an electrical component called a relay. With relays, you can use a low voltage signal to switch a high voltage circuit on and off. A small thing helps you realize a big thing.

This morning I had a ‘relay’ moment during my run (sort of a bad play on words I guess).

The story begins a few weeks ago.

I got out early to run. It was chilly so I wore a pair of blue gloves. These aren’t expensive gloves—just thin polar fleece. As the sun came up—and after a few miles of running—I got too warm. So I took off my gloves and tucked them into my waistband. Well, somewhere between there and home, I lost one of the gloves.

I hate losing stuff and I prayed that I might find it. Not the biggest deal. Just a cheap glove. But still.

The next few times I ran my loop, I kept my eyes open for the glove but never saw it. Oh well. Eventually I forgot about it.

Now, this morning I went for a run. It was a little cool to start and I wore a sweatshirt. After a while, I started getting warm so I stopped to remove the shirt and tied it around my waist. For some reason, this reminded me of the glove I lost a few weeks ago. As I started running again, not ten steps further down the street, I saw a patch of blue off to my left in a vacant lot. I went to have a look—and—it was my glove!

That was my ‘relay’ moment. I found treasure in a field. No, not the glove. That was a small thing. The big thing was God’s answer to my prayer. It was his care for me in the small thing that *was* the big thing. The glove just helped me see it.

Had I found the glove right away, I would have been grateful. But finding it weeks later, stopping where I did to remove my sweatshirt, being reminded of the glove, and then finding it right there—well—that was really special!
